Shaevaun Morlis
T-SQL HW 02b

1.	What is a data type? Why do we have data types?
Data types define the characteristics of the data that can be stored in a location such as a database column. A data type defines the possible set of values that are accepted. For example, a type of INT which stands for integer in SQL server can only accept whole numbers, decimal values are not allowed.
2. What is a collation? Name four elements of a collation. 
SQL Server collation refers to a set of character and character encoding rules, and influences how information is stored according to the order in the data page, how data is matched by comparing two columns, and how information is arranged in the T-SQL query statement. Collate SQL follows rules applied on a table when Select, Insert, Update or Delete operations are performed against contained data. Data always follows collation constraint rules, which are configured when creating an object.
•	SQL Server instance
•	Database
•	Column
•	Query

3. How would you strip whitespace from a string? For example, suppose you had \ Dave " but
wanted only \Dave". SQL contains two functions for trimming the white space from a string:
The LTRIM function is used to remove any white spaces from the beginning of a string.
The RTRIM function is used to remove any white spaces from the end of a string. You would put TRIM ( FROM  \Dave). 

4. Suppose you wanted to make a list of every college and university that was called an Institute from
the college table. Write the query. 
Select from college table where name = Institute
5. How would you find the number of the index of the first space in a string? For example, the index of
the first space in \Barack Hussein Obama" would be 7.  By using the CHARINDEX function. 
6. How would you select just the first name in a list of the presidents. Each record looks like the: "George Washington", "John Adams", "Thomas Jefferson". First names can be an arbitrary length, from \Cal" to \Benjamin." (e.g., Cal College, Benjamin Harrison) select left (Name,charindex(' ',name)) from mytable. 
7. What is the order of precedence for the logical operators? Parantheses, Positive and negative, multiplication, division, addition, subtraction, concatenation, comparison operators, not, and or. 
8. What is the order of precedence for the math operators? Positive and negative, multiplication, division, addition, subtraction, concatenation 
9. What is the difference between a simple and a searched CASE expression?; The simple CASE expression compares an expression to a set of simple expressions to determine the result. The searched CASE expression evaluates a set of Boolean expressions to determine the result.
10. How would you turn a list of names like this: \LASTNAME, FIRSTNAME", to a list like this:
\FIRSTNAME LASTNAME"?  By utilizing parse function which converts. 
11. How would you turn a list of names like this: \FIRSTNAME LASTNAME", to a list like this: \LAST-
NAME, FIRSTNAME"? By using the replace function. 
