Shae Morlis
T-SQL HW#6

1. What does a set operator do? Set operators are operators that combine rows from two query result sets (or multisets). Some of the operators remove duplicates from the result, and hence return a set, whereas others don’t, and hence return a multiset. 
2. What are the general requirements of a set operator? UNION, UNION ALL, INTERSECT, and EXCEPT. In every result set the data type of each column must match the data type of its corresponding column in the first result set.
3. What is a Venn Diagram? This is not in the book. Venn diagrams help to visually represent the similarities and differences between two concepts using two circles. 
4. Draw a Venn Diagram of the UNION operator. What does it do? It bring both sets together that are similar in the middle. 
5. Draw a Venn Diagram of the UNION ALL operator. What does it do? It brings both sets together to make one circle. 
6. Draw a Venn Diagram of the INTERSECT operator. What does it do? It brings the set of elements that are common in both circles together. 
7. If SQL Server supported the INTERSECT ALL operator, what would it do? INTERSECT ALL returns the number of duplicate rows matching the lower of the counts in both input multisets. It’s as if this operator looks for matches for each occurrence of each row. 
8. Draw a Venn Diagram of the EXCEPT operator. What does it do? The EXCEPT operator implements set differences. It operates on the results of two input queries and returns rows that appear in the first input but not the second. 
9. If SQL Server supported the EXCEPT ALL operator, what would it do? In other words, EXCEPT ALL returns only occurrences of a row from the first multiset that do not have a corresponding occurrence in the second.
10. What is the precedence of the set operators?
The INTERSECT operator precedes UNION and EXCEPT, and UNION and EXCEPT are evaluated in order of appearance. Using the ALL variant doesn’t change the precedence. 
11. The symmetric difference of two sets A and B is all elements in A that are also not in A and B, and all elements of B that are also not in A and B. For example, if set A consisted of all integers between 1 and100 that are divisible by 2, and set B consisted of all integers between 1 and 100 that are divisible by 3, the symmetric difference of A and B would include all integers in A and B except integers divisible by both 2 and 3, e.g., 6, 12, 18, etc. Write a SQL query that computes the symmetric difference of two tables A and B.
