Shaevaun Morlis
SQL HW#7

1. What is a window function? A window function is a function that, for each row, computes a scalar result value based on a calculation against a subset of the rows from the underlying query. The subset of rows is known as a window and is based on a window descriptor that relates to the current row. 

2. What does PARTITION do? 
Partitioning is the database process where very large tables are divided into multiple smaller parts. By splitting a large table into smaller, individual tables, queries that access only a fraction of the data can run faster because there is less data to scan.

3. What does ORDER BY do?
The ORDER BY keyword is used to sort the result-set in ascending or descending order. The ORDER BY keyword sorts the records in ascending order by default. 

4. What does ROWS BETWEEN do?
A window-frame clause (ROWS BETWEEN <top delimiter> AND <bottom delimiter>) filters a frame, or a subset, of rows from the window partition between the two specified delimiters.  Means that the window of rows that the function operates on is three rows in size, starting with 2 rows preceding until and including the current row.

5. What is a ranking window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.
The RANK window function determines the rank of a value in a group of values, based on the ORDER BY expression in the OVER clause.

6. What is an offset window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.
You use offset window functions to return an element from a row that is at a certain offset from the current row or at the beginning or end of a window frame. In the example from the book it returned the values from the previous and next orders. 

7. What do LEAD and LAG DO? The LAG and LEAD functions support window partitions and window order clauses. There’s no relevance to window framing here. You use these functions to obtain an element from a row that is at a certain offset from the current row within the partition, based on the indicated ordering. 

8. What do FIRST VALUE and LAST VALUE do? You use the FIRST_VALUE and LAST_VALUE functions to return an element from the first and last rows in the window frame, respectively. 

9. What is an aggregate window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.
Window functions operate on a set of rows and return a single value for each row from the underlying query. The OVER() clause differentiates window functions from other analytical and reporting functions.  You use aggregate window functions to aggregate the rows in the defined window. They support window-partition, window-order, and window-frame clauses.

10. What is a pivot table and what does it do?

Pivoting data involves rotating data from a state of rows to a state of columns, possibly aggregating values along the way. In many cases, the pivoting of data is handled by the presentation layer for purposes such as reporting.

11. In mathematical theory, what is a power set? How does this definition of power set relate to grouping sets? In math theory, A power set is set of all subsets, empty set and the original set itself. You can think of the CUBE subclause as producing the power set of grouping sets that can be formed from the given set of elements.

12. What is a bit array? How can you implement a bit array to represent a set of flags? How does the GROUPING ID() function implement a bit array? It’s an array data structure that compactly stores bits. It can be used to implement a simple set data structure.  A flags variable is nothing more than an integral type that I wish to treat as an array of bits, where each bit represents a flag or boolean value. 

13. Read the documentation on the UNIX/Linux chmod command. How would interpret this command: chmod 755 myscript.sql? 

Read and execute access of sql file myscript

