Shaevaun Morlis
TSQL HW#8a

1. When using INSERT, is the list of columns necessary? Why or why not? Specifying the target column names right after the table name is optional, but by doing so, you control the value-column associations instead of relying on the order of the columns in the CREATE TABLE statement.
2. When using INSERT SELECT, do you use a subquery (derived table)? Under what circumstances do
you not use a subquery? You write an INSERT SELECT statement that queries the derived table, filtering only the subset of rows that is needed. Subqueries cannot manipulate their results internally, that is, a subquery cannot include the order by clause, the compute clause, or the into keyword. Correlated (repeating) subqueries are not allowed in the select clause of an updatable cursor defined by declare cursor. 
3. What is the operand for the INSERT EXEC statement?  to extract data returned from a stored procedure into a table for manipulation. 
4. How would you use the INSERT INTO statement?  to insert new records in a table. 
5. What are the parameters to the BULK INSERT statement? you specify the target table, the source file, and options. You can specify many options, including the data file type (for example, char or native), the field terminator, the row terminator, and others—all of which are fully documented.
BULK INSERT dbo.Orders FROM 'c:\temp\orders.txt'  WITH    (       DATAFILETYPE    = 'char',       FIELDTERMINATOR = ',',       ROWTERMINATOR   = '\n'    );
6. Does IDENTITY guarantee uniqueness? If not, how do you guarantee uniqueness?
You need to understand that the identity property itself does not enforce uniqueness in the column. I already explained that you can provide your own explicit values after setting the IDENTITY_INSERT option to ON, and those values can be ones that already exist in rows in the table.
7. How do you create a SEQUENCE object? To create a sequence object, use the CREATE SEQUENCE command. The minimum required information is just the sequence name. 
8. How do you use a SEQUENCE object? Sequence objects can be used in combination with INSERT statements to insert values in a sequential manner. For instance, sequence object can be used to insert values for the primary key column.  
9. How do you alter a SEQUENCE object? To modify an existing sequence, the ALTER SEQUENCE statement is used. To change the data type, drop and create the sequence object.
10. What is the difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE? The DELETE statement is a standard statement used to delete data from a table based on an optional filter predicate. The standard TRUNCATE statement deletes all rows from a table. Unlike the DELETE statement, TRUNCATE has no filter.
11. What is the difference between DELETE and DROP TABLE?
Delete statement performs conditional based deletion, whereas Drop command deletes entire records in the table. Delete statement removes only the rows in the table and it preserves the table structure as same, and Drop command removes all the data in the table and the table structure. 
